# Varianti regionali italiane per termini automobilistici
# Formato: variante_regionale=termine_standard,regione

# Nord Italia
macchina=automobile,nord
auto=automobile,nord
vettura=automobile,nord
motore=propulsore,nord
freni=impianto frenante,nord
gomme=pneumatici,nord
cerchioni=cerchi,nord
paraurti=bumper,nord
cofano=vano motore,nord
baule=portabagagli,nord
cruscotto=plancia,nord
volante=sterzo,nord
marce=cambio,nord
frizione=clutch,nord
acceleratore=gas,nord
fari=luci,nord
tergicristalli=spazzole,nord
clacson=avvisatore acustico,nord
antifurto=allarme,nord
bollo=tassa di circolazione,nord
assicurazione=polizza,nord
revisione=controllo tecnico,nord
tagliando=manutenzione programmata,nord
carrozziere=lattoniere,nord
meccanico=riparatore,nord
gommista=pneumaticista,nord
autolavaggio=lavaggio auto,nord
distributore=stazione di servizio,nord
benzina=carburante,nord
gasolio=diesel,nord
metano=gas naturale,nord
gpl=gas di petrolio liquefatto,nord

# Lombardia
macchina=automobile,lombardia
maghina=automobile,lombardia
motùr=motore,lombardia
frèn=freni,lombardia
gòm=gomme,lombardia
paraurt=paraurti,lombardia
cufanù=cofano,lombardia
baùl=baule,lombardia
ulant=volante,lombardia
marsc=marce,lombardia
far=fari,lombardia
spazzul=tergicristalli,lombardia
clacson=avvisatore acustico,lombardia
benżina=benzina,lombardia
gażöli=gasolio,lombardia

# Piemonte
macchina=automobile,piemonte
vitura=automobile,piemonte
moteur=motore,piemonte
fren=freni,piemonte
gome=gomme,piemonte
paraurt=paraurti,piemonte
cofano=cofano,piemonte
baul=baule,piemonte
volan=volante,piemonte
marce=marce,piemonte
far=fari,piemonte
tergicristal=tergicristalli,piemonte
clacson=avvisatore acustico,piemonte
benzina=benzina,piemonte
gasolio=gasolio,piemonte

# Veneto
machina=automobile,veneto
auto=automobile,veneto
motor=motore,veneto
freni=freni,veneto
gome=gomme,veneto
paracolpi=paraurti,veneto
cofano=cofano,veneto
baul=baule,veneto
volante=volante,veneto
marce=marce,veneto
fari=fari,veneto
spasole=tergicristalli,veneto
trombe=clacson,veneto
benzina=benzina,veneto
gasolio=gasolio,veneto

# Liguria
macchina=automobile,liguria
auto=automobile,liguria
motô=motore,liguria
freni=freni,liguria
gumme=gomme,liguria
paraùrti=paraurti,liguria
cufano=cofano,liguria
baule=baule,liguria
volante=volante,liguria
marce=marce,liguria
fari=fari,liguria
tergicristalli=tergicristalli,liguria
clacson=clacson,liguria
benzinn-a=benzina,liguria
gasolio=gasolio,liguria

# Emilia-Romagna
machina=automobile,emilia-romagna
auto=automobile,emilia-romagna
mutor=motore,emilia-romagna
fren=freni,emilia-romagna
gom=gomme,emilia-romagna
paraurt=paraurti,emilia-romagna
cufan=cofano,emilia-romagna
baul=baule,emilia-romagna
vulant=volante,emilia-romagna
marci=marce,emilia-romagna
farel=fari,emilia-romagna
spasul=tergicristalli,emilia-romagna
tramba=clacson,emilia-romagna
benzina=benzina,emilia-romagna
gasoli=gasolio,emilia-romagna

# Centro Italia
macchina=automobile,centro
auto=automobile,centro
vettura=automobile,centro
motore=propulsore,centro
freni=impianto frenante,centro
gomme=pneumatici,centro
cerchioni=cerchi,centro
paraurti=bumper,centro
cofano=vano motore,centro
baule=portabagagli,centro
cruscotto=plancia,centro
volante=sterzo,centro
marce=cambio,centro
frizione=clutch,centro
acceleratore=gas,centro
fari=luci,centro
tergicristalli=spazzole,centro
clacson=avvisatore acustico,centro
antifurto=allarme,centro
bollo=tassa di circolazione,centro
assicurazione=polizza,centro
revisione=controllo tecnico,centro
tagliando=manutenzione programmata,centro
carrozziere=lattoniere,centro
meccanico=riparatore,centro
gommista=pneumaticista,centro
autolavaggio=lavaggio auto,centro
distributore=stazione di servizio,centro
benzina=carburante,centro
gasolio=diesel,centro
metano=gas naturale,centro
gpl=gas di petrolio liquefatto,centro

# Toscana
macchina=automobile,toscana
auto=automobile,toscana
motore=motore,toscana
freni=freni,toscana
gomme=gomme,toscana
paraurti=paraurti,toscana
cofano=cofano,toscana
baule=baule,toscana
volante=volante,toscana
marce=marce,toscana
fari=fari,toscana
tergicristalli=tergicristalli,toscana
clacson=clacson,toscana
benzina=benzina,toscana
gasolio=gasolio,toscana

# Lazio
macchina=automobile,lazio
auto=automobile,lazio
motore=motore,lazio
freni=freni,lazio
gomme=gomme,lazio
paraurti=paraurti,lazio
cofano=cofano,lazio
baule=baule,lazio
volante=volante,lazio
marce=marce,lazio
fari=fari,lazio
tergicristalli=tergicristalli,lazio
clacson=clacson,lazio
benzina=benzina,lazio
gasolio=gasolio,lazio

# Umbria
macchina=automobile,umbria
auto=automobile,umbria
motore=motore,umbria
freni=freni,umbria
gomme=gomme,umbria
paraurti=paraurti,umbria
cofano=cofano,umbria
baule=baule,umbria
volante=volante,umbria
marce=marce,umbria
fari=fari,umbria
tergicristalli=tergicristalli,umbria
clacson=clacson,umbria
benzina=benzina,umbria
gasolio=gasolio,umbria

# Marche
macchina=automobile,marche
auto=automobile,marche
motore=motore,marche
freni=freni,marche
gomme=gomme,marche
paraurti=paraurti,marche
cofano=cofano,marche
baule=baule,marche
volante=volante,marche
marce=marce,marche
fari=fari,marche
tergicristalli=tergicristalli,marche
clacson=clacson,marche
benzina=benzina,marche
gasolio=gasolio,marche

# Sud Italia
macchina=automobile,sud
auto=automobile,sud
vettura=automobile,sud
motore=propulsore,sud
freni=impianto frenante,sud
gomme=pneumatici,sud
cerchioni=cerchi,sud
paraurti=bumper,sud
cofano=vano motore,sud
baule=portabagagli,sud
cruscotto=plancia,sud
volante=sterzo,sud
marce=cambio,sud
frizione=clutch,sud
acceleratore=gas,sud
fari=luci,sud
tergicristalli=spazzole,sud
clacson=avvisatore acustico,sud
antifurto=allarme,sud
bollo=tassa di circolazione,sud
assicurazione=polizza,sud
revisione=controllo tecnico,sud
tagliando=manutenzione programmata,sud
carrozziere=lattoniere,sud
meccanico=riparatore,sud
gommista=pneumaticista,sud
autolavaggio=lavaggio auto,sud
distributore=stazione di servizio,sud
benzina=carburante,sud
gasolio=diesel,sud
metano=gas naturale,sud
gpl=gas di petrolio liquefatto,sud

# Campania
macchina=automobile,campania
auto=automobile,campania
motore=motore,campania
freni=freni,campania
gomme=gomme,campania
paraurti=paraurti,campania
cofano=cofano,campania
baule=baule,campania
volante=volante,campania
marce=marce,campania
fari=fari,campania
tergicristalli=tergicristalli,campania
clacson=clacson,campania
benzina=benzina,campania
gasolio=gasolio,campania

# Puglia
macchina=automobile,puglia
auto=automobile,puglia
motore=motore,puglia
freni=freni,puglia
gomme=gomme,puglia
paraurti=paraurti,puglia
cofano=cofano,puglia
baule=baule,puglia
volante=volante,puglia
marce=marce,puglia
fari=fari,puglia
tergicristalli=tergicristalli,puglia
clacson=clacson,puglia
benzina=benzina,puglia
gasolio=gasolio,puglia

# Calabria
macchina=automobile,calabria
auto=automobile,calabria
motore=motore,calabria
freni=freni,calabria
gomme=gomme,calabria
paraurti=paraurti,calabria
cofano=cofano,calabria
baule=baule,calabria
volante=volante,calabria
marce=marce,calabria
fari=fari,calabria
tergicristalli=tergicristalli,calabria
clacson=clacson,calabria
benzina=benzina,calabria
gasolio=gasolio,calabria

# Sicilia
macchina=automobile,sicilia
auto=automobile,sicilia
motore=motore,sicilia
freni=freni,sicilia
gomme=gomme,sicilia
paraurti=paraurti,sicilia
cofano=cofano,sicilia
baule=baule,sicilia
volante=volante,sicilia
marce=marce,sicilia
fari=fari,sicilia
tergicristalli=tergicristalli,sicilia
clacson=clacson,sicilia
benzina=benzina,sicilia
gasolio=gasolio,sicilia

# Sardegna
macchina=automobile,sardegna
auto=automobile,sardegna
motore=motore,sardegna
freni=freni,sardegna
gomme=gomme,sardegna
paraurti=paraurti,sardegna
cofano=cofano,sardegna
baule=baule,sardegna
volante=volante,sardegna
marce=marce,sardegna
fari=fari,sardegna
tergicristalli=tergicristalli,sardegna
clacson=clacson,sardegna
benzina=benzina,sardegna
gasolio=gasolio,sardegna